_methods/affinity-diagram.md, before:

---
layout: methods
type: 
title: Affinity diagram
category: define
teaser: Synthesize information with this sorting exercise.
tools:
  - Boardthing
  - Video Conferencing
  - Screenshare
---


## Why do it:

At a certain point in any project you need to move from idea generation to synthesizing so that you can take action on your design. Sticky Clustering helps you to synthesize information while simultaneously engaging the entire product team so that you have complete buy in.

## When to do it:

This should be done after an idea generation method such as creating [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)

## Who’s involved:

This varies depending upon what information you are trying to synthesize, however someone with real decision making abilities should be involved.

## Time estimate:

Small (1-2 hours)

## One way to do it:

1. Generate a plethora of stickies around your idea using an online brainstorming tool such as [BoardThing](http://boardthing.com). For a more thorough explanation of this, check out [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)
    ![idea generation](/img/methods/clustering-1.png)

2. Working in teams, drag and group like-minded ideas or words together.
    ![group like-minded ideas](/img/methods/clustering-2.png)

3. Provide a new sticky for each group or cluster that you create. Name the sticky for the cluster.
    ![group and name clusters](/img/methods/clustering-3.png)

4. (optional) Vote on the names to synthesize even further. This works best if someone takes on the role of facilitator. 
    ![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-4.png)


---

## Learn more:

* [6 techniques to Brainstorm Ideas for Card Clusters](http://www.avasbutler.com/six-techniques-to-brainstorm-ideas-4-card-clusters/#.V4zrzJMrKRs)
* [Tools for Online Brainstorms](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)

Commit message:

tweaks to affinity diagram method
- capitalization
- removing Sticky Clustering
- adding periods.

_methods/affinity-diagram.md, after:

---
layout: methods
type: 
title: Affinity Diagram
category: define
teaser: Synthesize information with this sorting exercise.
tools:
  - BoardThing
  - Video conferencing app.
  - Screensharing app.
---


## Why do it:

At a certain point in any project you need to move from idea generation to synthesizing so that you can take action on your design. Affinity Diagrams help you to synthesize information while simultaneously engaging the entire product team so that you have complete buy in.

## When to do it:

This should be done after an idea generation method such as creating [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/).

## Who’s involved:

This varies depending upon what information you are trying to synthesize, however someone with real decision making abilities should be involved.

## Time estimate:

Small (1-2 hours)

## One way to do it:

1. Generate a plethora of stickies around your idea using an online brainstorming tool such as [BoardThing](http://boardthing.com). For a more thorough explanation of this, check out [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/).
    ![idea generation](/img/methods/clustering-1.png)

2. Working in teams, drag and group like-minded ideas or words together.
    ![group like-minded ideas](/img/methods/clustering-2.png)

3. Provide a new sticky for each group or cluster that you create. Name the sticky for the cluster.
    ![group and name clusters](/img/methods/clustering-3.png)

4. (optional) Vote on the names to synthesize even further. This works best if someone takes on the role of facilitator. 
    ![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-4.png)


---

## Learn more:

* [6 techniques to Brainstorm Ideas for Card Clusters](http://www.avasbutler.com/six-techniques-to-brainstorm-ideas-4-card-clusters/#.V4zrzJMrKRs)
* [Tools for Online Brainstorms](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)
