_methods/design-values.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Design Values
tags:
    - Discovery
---

**Method:** Design Values

---

**Description:**

This method details how to facilitate a workshop for co-creating design values.

---

**Why use or do it:**

When designing products, design values help guide an organization or team make appropriate decisions, whether it's filtering opportunities, prioritizing features, or ultimately defining success.

---

**Who’s involved:**

Designers, engineers, stakeholders, and anyone else who cares about design.

---

**When to use it:**

Use this at the beginning of a project when you need a "north star" to guide everyone to success.

---

**How To: Design Values**

* **Step 1:** Choose online products that everyone can use remotely. [Boardthing.com](http://boardthing.com/) is a great product that people can use synchronously for completeling workshop steps (adding items to an infinite canvas, moving items around, voting on them).

* **Step 2:** Before the workshop date, stage your Boardthing with items like an Agenda and Prompts. A product like Boardthing offers the ability to collapse lists, which I prefer to do, because as a facilitator, I like to keep the focus of participants on one thing at a time.

* **Step 3:** Decide with your participants when you would like to hold the workshop. Once a date is decided upon, make sure everyone has the link to the board you made and a way of communicationg audio-visually where people can screen-share (like Google Hangouts or Screenhero).

* **Step 4:** Begin the workshop with an introduction. Explaining the purpose of the workshop, what design values are, and how it will help the particular project you need them for.

* **Step 5:** After the intro, explain that for every prompt you ask, participants will make as many items with words or phrases as they can think of, individually and silently. If using Boardthing, the items will look like stickies.

* **Step 6:** For design values, it's best to ask an abstract question. Leah Buley recommends something like, "If [the product or project that needs design values] is a person/place/transportation/food, what kind of quality or attribute would it have?"

* **Step 7:** Once participants have come up with a good number of items, ask them to begin sorting them in groups that make sense to them.

* **Step 8:** Once participants have settled on groups (and it's alright to have a few items that are ungrouped), ask them to give the groups names (these names will be come values). If groups have more than one name, open up the discussion by asking participants which one works better.

* **Step 9:** If it's needed to prioritize the item groups in terms of importance, use dot voting. Assign participants a finite number of votes, such as 3 votes for the most important, 2 votes for the second most important, and 1 vote for the third important (voting works best if participants can't spend all their votes on one item or spread them out evenly).

* **Step 10:** Once participants have voted on the groups by importance, focus on 5-7 groups and have participants start coming up with statements of what the exeprience of using [the product or project that needs design values] is like according to each value that emerged.

* **Step 11:** If value groups have more than on sentence, discuss as a group which statement best fits the value.

---

**Examples:**

![design values words with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv1.png)
![design values words and dot voting with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv2.png)
![design values words and clustering with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv3.png)
![design values words refined with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv4.png)

---

**Learn More:**

* [Experience Design Principles](https://uxthink.wordpress.com/2011/02/01/expereince-design-principles/)
* [Nordstrong UX Principles](http://www.justinmarxdesign.com/nordstrom-ux-principles)
* [Design Principles For The Win](http://www.designprinciplesftw.com}

Commit message:

add in a space for a teaser to use in the home page

_methods/design-values.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Design Values
tags:
    - Discovery
teaser: This method details how to facilitate a workshop for co-creating design values.
---

**Method:** Design Values

---

**Description:**

This method details how to facilitate a workshop for co-creating design values.

---

**Why use or do it:**

When designing products, design values help guide an organization or team make appropriate decisions, whether it's filtering opportunities, prioritizing features, or ultimately defining success.

---

**Who’s involved:**

Designers, engineers, stakeholders, and anyone else who cares about design.

---

**When to use it:**

Use this at the beginning of a project when you need a "north star" to guide everyone to success.

---

**How To: Design Values**

* **Step 1:** Choose online products that everyone can use remotely. [Boardthing.com](http://boardthing.com/) is a great product that people can use synchronously for completeling workshop steps (adding items to an infinite canvas, moving items around, voting on them).

* **Step 2:** Before the workshop date, stage your Boardthing with items like an Agenda and Prompts. A product like Boardthing offers the ability to collapse lists, which I prefer to do, because as a facilitator, I like to keep the focus of participants on one thing at a time.

* **Step 3:** Decide with your participants when you would like to hold the workshop. Once a date is decided upon, make sure everyone has the link to the board you made and a way of communicationg audio-visually where people can screen-share (like Google Hangouts or Screenhero).

* **Step 4:** Begin the workshop with an introduction. Explaining the purpose of the workshop, what design values are, and how it will help the particular project you need them for.

* **Step 5:** After the intro, explain that for every prompt you ask, participants will make as many items with words or phrases as they can think of, individually and silently. If using Boardthing, the items will look like stickies.

* **Step 6:** For design values, it's best to ask an abstract question. Leah Buley recommends something like, "If [the product or project that needs design values] is a person/place/transportation/food, what kind of quality or attribute would it have?"

* **Step 7:** Once participants have come up with a good number of items, ask them to begin sorting them in groups that make sense to them.

* **Step 8:** Once participants have settled on groups (and it's alright to have a few items that are ungrouped), ask them to give the groups names (these names will be come values). If groups have more than one name, open up the discussion by asking participants which one works better.

* **Step 9:** If it's needed to prioritize the item groups in terms of importance, use dot voting. Assign participants a finite number of votes, such as 3 votes for the most important, 2 votes for the second most important, and 1 vote for the third important (voting works best if participants can't spend all their votes on one item or spread them out evenly).

* **Step 10:** Once participants have voted on the groups by importance, focus on 5-7 groups and have participants start coming up with statements of what the exeprience of using [the product or project that needs design values] is like according to each value that emerged.

* **Step 11:** If value groups have more than on sentence, discuss as a group which statement best fits the value.

---

**Examples:**

![design values words with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv1.png)
![design values words and dot voting with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv2.png)
![design values words and clustering with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv3.png)
![design values words refined with Board Thing](/img/methods/dv4.png)

---

**Learn More:**

* [Experience Design Principles](https://uxthink.wordpress.com/2011/02/01/expereince-design-principles/)
* [Nordstrong UX Principles](http://www.justinmarxdesign.com/nordstrom-ux-principles)
* [Design Principles For The Win](http://www.designprinciplesftw.com}
