_methods/experience-attributes.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Experience Attributes
tags:
    - Define
---

**Method:** Experience Attributes

---

**Description:** Collaboratively generate descriptive words to inform the mood boards and visual direction of the project.


---

**Why use or do it:**  Prior to working on the visual design for a product, project or website, you often need the entire product team and stakeholders to agree upon a common terminology for the look and feel of things. This exercise provides a space for everyone to explore what a successful and effective design might be. This is also a great opportunity to decide what just feels right for this specific design opportunity.

---

**Who’s involved:** Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process.


---

**When to use it:** This method can be done as part of the Visual Design Workshop. The workshop is most effective when done as a kickoff to the visual design phase(s) of a project. This can happen well before the ux direction of the project is defined and/or the design of wireframes is finalized. Because remote or not co-located meetings can be extremely draining, consider breaking this workshop into a few sessions - with each session no longer than 90 minutes. The actual scheduling will depend on the client, the availability, the timeline, etc.

---

**How To Generate Experience Attributes**

* Step 1: Place tons of different images on a board in a matrix. To do this remotely, use a tool such as [Board Thing](http://boardthing.com/)

![experience attributes on Board Thing](/img/methods/ea-1.png)


* Step 2: Explain to participants that they are able to vote on 10 images - 5 that feel right and 5 that don't feel right.

* Step 3: As a group, review the project brief and [personas](/methods/personas/) (if there are any). Think about the users of the product or project. What do they like? What appeals to them?
* Step 3: Give participants 20 minutes to stand up, study the pictures, and put dots directly on the images(or votes if you are using Board Thing). If you are co-located, Green dots are for images that have some kind of positive association (in your mind) with the Product mission, red for negative. If you are not co-located, break the vote into two 10 minute sessions - vote once for images that feel wrong and another time for those that feel right.  (Remind participants that there’s no right answer here. It’s the conversation that arises that’s important).


<img src="/img/methods/ea-2.png" width="200"/>

* Step 4: When all of the dots have been added, facilitate a conversation amongst the group about why they voted the way they did. Start with the ones that had a lot of reds, since people often find it very easy to talk about what’s undesirable. Move to the ones that had a lot of greens to solicit positive attributes.

![plot experience attributes](/img/methods/ea-3.png)

* Step 5: Capture the adjectives that they are using during this conversation on a spectrum using sticky notes or digital stickies.

![describe experience attributes](/img/methods/ea-4.png)



---

**Examples:**
![describe experience attributes](/img/methods/experience-attributes.jpeg)

---
**Learn More:**
* This method pairs well with Sticky Clustering
* The Open Design Kit method is based on the [Brand Experience Workshop](http://www.cooper.com/journal/2015/3/the-experience-workshop-a-cooper-primer) developed by Cooper
* Tools for [Online Brainstorming](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)
* [Visual Design Basics](https://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/visual-design.html)

Commit message:

add in a space for a teaser to use in the home page

_methods/experience-attributes.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Experience Attributes
tags:
    - Define
teaser: Collaboratively generate descriptive words to inform the mood boards and visual direction of the project.
---

**Method:** Experience Attributes

---

**Description:** Collaboratively generate descriptive words to inform the mood boards and visual direction of the project.


---

**Why use or do it:**  Prior to working on the visual design for a product, project or website, you often need the entire product team and stakeholders to agree upon a common terminology for the look and feel of things. This exercise provides a space for everyone to explore what a successful and effective design might be. This is also a great opportunity to decide what just feels right for this specific design opportunity.

---

**Who’s involved:** Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process.


---

**When to use it:** This method can be done as part of the Visual Design Workshop. The workshop is most effective when done as a kickoff to the visual design phase(s) of a project. This can happen well before the ux direction of the project is defined and/or the design of wireframes is finalized. Because remote or not co-located meetings can be extremely draining, consider breaking this workshop into a few sessions - with each session no longer than 90 minutes. The actual scheduling will depend on the client, the availability, the timeline, etc.

---

**How To Generate Experience Attributes**

* Step 1: Place tons of different images on a board in a matrix. To do this remotely, use a tool such as [Board Thing](http://boardthing.com/)

![experience attributes on Board Thing](/img/methods/ea-1.png)


* Step 2: Explain to participants that they are able to vote on 10 images - 5 that feel right and 5 that don't feel right.

* Step 3: As a group, review the project brief and [personas](/methods/personas/) (if there are any). Think about the users of the product or project. What do they like? What appeals to them?
* Step 3: Give participants 20 minutes to stand up, study the pictures, and put dots directly on the images(or votes if you are using Board Thing). If you are co-located, Green dots are for images that have some kind of positive association (in your mind) with the Product mission, red for negative. If you are not co-located, break the vote into two 10 minute sessions - vote once for images that feel wrong and another time for those that feel right.  (Remind participants that there’s no right answer here. It’s the conversation that arises that’s important).


<img src="/img/methods/ea-2.png" width="200"/>

* Step 4: When all of the dots have been added, facilitate a conversation amongst the group about why they voted the way they did. Start with the ones that had a lot of reds, since people often find it very easy to talk about what’s undesirable. Move to the ones that had a lot of greens to solicit positive attributes.

![plot experience attributes](/img/methods/ea-3.png)

* Step 5: Capture the adjectives that they are using during this conversation on a spectrum using sticky notes or digital stickies.

![describe experience attributes](/img/methods/ea-4.png)



---

**Examples:**
![describe experience attributes](/img/methods/experience-attributes.jpeg)

---
**Learn More:**
* This method pairs well with Sticky Clustering
* The Open Design Kit method is based on the [Brand Experience Workshop](http://www.cooper.com/journal/2015/3/the-experience-workshop-a-cooper-primer) developed by Cooper
* Tools for [Online Brainstorming](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)
* [Visual Design Basics](https://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/visual-design.html)
