_methods/human-spectrogram.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Human Spectrogram
---

**Method:** Human Spectrogram

---

**Description:** The goal of this activity is to get participants to loosen up and start engaging on the topic of design. The space is intentionally interactive and fluid. This means that participants are expected to change their mind throughout the course of conversation and physically (or within the trello board) change location.

---

**Why use or do it:** This is an icebreaker, it's an activity that helps everyone to see where they stand on any particular topic.

---

**Who’s involved:** Anyone who should be collaborating with eachother.

---

**When to use it:** This activity is ideal to do when lots of people have different opinions on a given topic. The activity will help you to find a shared vocabulary and identify future conversation topics.

---

**How To make a human spectrogram**

* **Introduce participants to the space** - Explain that the room (or trello board) is a fluid, interactive space. It's like a thermometer or spectogram. Say that you will be making some intentionally controversial statements. On one side is where people should stand (put their name) if they strongly agree and the other is they strongly disagree. If they are feeling middle ground - stand in the middle of the room.

* **Say intentional controversial statement** - Here are 3 prepared statements. You might only get through one - and that's totally fine. The goal is to get people to loosen up and start to feel comfortable talking about design.

    * I do design at [x]   
    * I need to know how to design
    * I understand what design is at [x]

* **Get movin!** Participants should move to the part of the room or board to express where they stand.

* **Facilitate conversation** - when you say your statement you should have a pencil or pen in your hand. At this point participants should be spread out over the room. Walk over to a participant who is on one of the strongly agree/disagree sides and hand them "talking stick"(pencil in person - but remote should just call out the participant). Ask them to say why they are standing (placed) where they are. After they finish, ask who disagrees with them (on the other side of the room/board) - have that person explain why. When people talk you might expect some movement or change of peoples place in the room or the document. Note that movement and ask people what prompted them to move.

* **Repeat**

![human spectrogram image](/img/methods/design-o-meter.jpg)

---

**Facillitation Notes**

---

First, explain the task.  A statement will be made and the participants will move around the room, or move their cards on trello to the agree or disagree side.

Participants in the middle of the room, or the "I don't know" column are unsure how to react to the statement.

Now explain that at any time, you can move and change your mind about a statement.

After participants make their initial movements, ask each to explain why they chose what they did.
Ask if a participant thinks another participant's choice seems right to them.
Ask if anyone wants to challenge other's choices and compel them to change their mind.

**Icebreaker questions:**        
- New York has the best pizza
- Horror is the best movie genre.
- Dogs are better than cats.
- Bigfoot and Yetis are the same thing.
- The Ewoks are the best part of the Star Wars Franchise.


**Examples:**

![trello spectrogram](/img/methods/design-o-meter-trello.png)

---
**Learn More:**

* [Remote - first lesson plan development](https://bocoup.com/weblog/remote-first-lesson-plan-development)
* [Human Spectrogram by Aspiration Tech - this activity is a remix of their physical activity](http://facilitation.aspirationtech.org/index.php?title=Facilitation:Spectrogram)

Commit message:

adding in teasers and tags for each method, for #95 and #96

_methods/human-spectrogram.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Human Spectrogram
tags:
    - discovery
teaser: An activity aimed at getting people to open up and think about design.
---

**Method:** Human Spectrogram

---

**Description:** The goal of this activity is to get participants to loosen up and start engaging on the topic of design. The space is intentionally interactive and fluid. This means that participants are expected to change their mind throughout the course of conversation and physically (or within the trello board) change location.

---

**Why use or do it:** This is an icebreaker, it's an activity that helps everyone to see where they stand on any particular topic.

---

**Who’s involved:** Anyone who should be collaborating with eachother.

---

**When to use it:** This activity is ideal to do when lots of people have different opinions on a given topic. The activity will help you to find a shared vocabulary and identify future conversation topics.

---

**How To make a human spectrogram**

* **Introduce participants to the space** - Explain that the room (or trello board) is a fluid, interactive space. It's like a thermometer or spectogram. Say that you will be making some intentionally controversial statements. On one side is where people should stand (put their name) if they strongly agree and the other is they strongly disagree. If they are feeling middle ground - stand in the middle of the room.

* **Say intentional controversial statement** - Here are 3 prepared statements. You might only get through one - and that's totally fine. The goal is to get people to loosen up and start to feel comfortable talking about design.

    * I do design at [x]   
    * I need to know how to design
    * I understand what design is at [x]

* **Get movin!** Participants should move to the part of the room or board to express where they stand.

* **Facilitate conversation** - when you say your statement you should have a pencil or pen in your hand. At this point participants should be spread out over the room. Walk over to a participant who is on one of the strongly agree/disagree sides and hand them "talking stick"(pencil in person - but remote should just call out the participant). Ask them to say why they are standing (placed) where they are. After they finish, ask who disagrees with them (on the other side of the room/board) - have that person explain why. When people talk you might expect some movement or change of peoples place in the room or the document. Note that movement and ask people what prompted them to move.

* **Repeat**

![human spectrogram image](/img/methods/design-o-meter.jpg)

---

**Facillitation Notes**

---

First, explain the task.  A statement will be made and the participants will move around the room, or move their cards on trello to the agree or disagree side.

Participants in the middle of the room, or the "I don't know" column are unsure how to react to the statement.

Now explain that at any time, you can move and change your mind about a statement.

After participants make their initial movements, ask each to explain why they chose what they did.
Ask if a participant thinks another participant's choice seems right to them.
Ask if anyone wants to challenge other's choices and compel them to change their mind.

**Icebreaker questions:**        
- New York has the best pizza
- Horror is the best movie genre.
- Dogs are better than cats.
- Bigfoot and Yetis are the same thing.
- The Ewoks are the best part of the Star Wars Franchise.


**Examples:**

![trello spectrogram](/img/methods/design-o-meter-trello.png)

---
**Learn More:**

* [Remote - first lesson plan development](https://bocoup.com/weblog/remote-first-lesson-plan-development)
* [Human Spectrogram by Aspiration Tech - this activity is a remix of their physical activity](http://facilitation.aspirationtech.org/index.php?title=Facilitation:Spectrogram)
