_methods/Interface-Inventory.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Interface Inventory
---

**Method:** Interface Inventory

---

**Description:**  
An inventory of all the various visual elements being used in a design, bringing them all together to compare, and bring consistency.

---

**Why use or do it:**  
It brings consistency to both the visual design and will aid in making a style guide or pattern library.
Who’s involved: Designers, front end developers, project managers, engineers, any other relevant stakeholders, and anyone who wants to be.

---

**When to use it:**  
After visual design has been started and the designer feels comfortable with moving towards implementation. Or it can be done once something is implemented, if you are looking to refactor and clean up design elements as well as the CSS and markup.

---

**Who’s involved:**  
Designers, Stakeholders and front-end engineers.

---

**How To: Interface Inventory**

* **Step 1:**  
Start with a page/screen/view of the site or application or with a print out of the visual design. Begin pulling out visual elements. If using paper printouts, cut them up into elements. If digitally, screenshot them and put them in a collaborative space like Google Drive, pasting images into a document.
* **Step 2:**  
Arrange like elements together, so that you have all the buttons together, all the headings, all the sidebar boxes, etc.
* **Step 3:**  
Work together as a team, either virtually or in the same room to compare and talk about how you’ve done the groupings. Are the right things grouped together? Should you break some things apart into their own categories? Do people feel like it's making sense?
* **Step 4:**  
See if there are items that could be the same design for consistency and usability. Examples of this could be if you have 12 headings but some of them are very similar in design, such as only a few pixels difference in font size or margins or padding, could they be consolidated into one style? What would you name the various modules?

---

**Examples and more information:**

* [Brad Frost’s Interface Inventory](http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/interface-inventory/)
* [_From Pages to Patterns_ on _A List Apart_](http://alistapart.com/article/from-pages-to-patterns-an-exercise-for-everyone)
* [_Language of Modular Design_ on _A List Apart_](http://alistapart.com/article/language-of-modular-design)
* [_Creating a Type Style Guide_](http://blog.typekit.com/2014/10/22/creating-a-type-style-guide/) (Step by step with screenshots of the an inventory of type on a site)

Commit message:

adding in teasers and tags for each method, for #95 and #96

_methods/Interface-Inventory.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Interface Inventory
tags:
    - develop
teaser: An activity to take designs and break them up into component parts, creating an inventory for use in code.
---

**Method:** Interface Inventory

---

**Description:**  
An inventory of all the various visual elements being used in a design, bringing them all together to compare, and bring consistency.

---

**Why use or do it:**  
It brings consistency to both the visual design and will aid in making a style guide or pattern library.
Who’s involved: Designers, front end developers, project managers, engineers, any other relevant stakeholders, and anyone who wants to be.

---

**When to use it:**  
After visual design has been started and the designer feels comfortable with moving towards implementation. Or it can be done once something is implemented, if you are looking to refactor and clean up design elements as well as the CSS and markup.

---

**Who’s involved:**  
Designers, Stakeholders and front-end engineers.

---

**How To: Interface Inventory**

* **Step 1:**  
Start with a page/screen/view of the site or application or with a print out of the visual design. Begin pulling out visual elements. If using paper printouts, cut them up into elements. If digitally, screenshot them and put them in a collaborative space like Google Drive, pasting images into a document.
* **Step 2:**  
Arrange like elements together, so that you have all the buttons together, all the headings, all the sidebar boxes, etc.
* **Step 3:**  
Work together as a team, either virtually or in the same room to compare and talk about how you’ve done the groupings. Are the right things grouped together? Should you break some things apart into their own categories? Do people feel like it's making sense?
* **Step 4:**  
See if there are items that could be the same design for consistency and usability. Examples of this could be if you have 12 headings but some of them are very similar in design, such as only a few pixels difference in font size or margins or padding, could they be consolidated into one style? What would you name the various modules?

---

**Examples and more information:**

* [Brad Frost’s Interface Inventory](http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/interface-inventory/)
* [_From Pages to Patterns_ on _A List Apart_](http://alistapart.com/article/from-pages-to-patterns-an-exercise-for-everyone)
* [_Language of Modular Design_ on _A List Apart_](http://alistapart.com/article/language-of-modular-design)
* [_Creating a Type Style Guide_](http://blog.typekit.com/2014/10/22/creating-a-type-style-guide/) (Step by step with screenshots of the an inventory of type on a site)
