_methods/Journey-Maps.md, before:

---
layout: methods
type: 
title: Journey Maps
category: define
teaser: Define the happy path for your personas.
tools:
---

## Why do it:

We use journey maps to come up with a list of requirements for our project and uncover hidden issues. It's a way of brainstorming that is focused on user experience and forces the team to empathsize with your users.

## When to do it:

Journey maps are created after you've made personas for your project. Use the personas to walk through that person having a task to do that involves your tool.

## Who’s involved:

Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process of co-authoring the journey maps.

They can also be done solo as an exercise to work through design issues.


## Time estimate:

Small (1 -2 hours), per persona

## One way to do it:


1. Build off of existing personas. Select a persona that you have created earlier. Go over this person's goals, values and what makes them stressed. (If you haven’t made a persona, and are short on time, try to identify a typical user for your project.) 

2. Have one participant take on the role of the persona. All of the other participants should take notes in a text application (Google Docs, Etherpad),document (either in a text document or using a more visual application such as BoardThing) and ask the persona clarifying questions. 

3.  The person playing the role of persona should start out by identifying what their goal is. (Example: my goal is to book a hotel for my vacation with my partner). Next, have them identify the very first step that they might take in order to achieve that goal. Note that this most likely will start before the persona even gets on to the website or application. (Example: I ask a participant “where do you want to go on vacation?”) 

4. Describe each step in detail. From here on out have the persona role player walk through every possible step that they would take until just after they reach their goal. The steps taken after the goal has been achieved are crucial to note as it informs you where they are heading next. 


 If you have an application, don't start at logging in, instead start at the motive that would make someone need to log in.


5. Once you have completed documenting the entire scenario, have the non-persona role playing participants provide feedback on the journey. Now is a good time to ask clarifying questions ranging from the order of steps that a persona might take to more nuanced inquiries. 

---

## Examples:
* [The Lyra Project - by Bocoup](https://github.com/vega/lyra/search?q=persona&type=Issues&utf8=%E2%9C%93)

## Learn More:

Commit message:

journey mapping clean up - added links, tools and learn more content

_methods/Journey-Maps.md, after:

---
layout: methods
type: 
title: Journey Maps
category: define
teaser: Define the happy path for your personas.
tools:
 - Personas
 - Video conferencing app
 - Screensharing app
 - Collaborative text editor
---

## Why do it:

We use journey maps to come up with a list of requirements for our project and uncover hidden issues. It's a way of brainstorming that is focused on user experience and forces the team to empathsize with your users.

## When to do it:

Journey maps are created after you've made [personas](/methods/personas/) for your project.

## Who’s involved:

Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process of co-authoring the journey maps. They can also be done solo as an exercise to work through design issues.


## Time estimate:

Small (1 -2 hours), per persona.

## One way to do it:


1. Build off of existing personas. Select a persona that you have created earlier. Go over this person's goals, values and what makes them stressed. (If you haven’t made a persona, and are short on time, try to identify a typical user for your project.) 

2. Have one participant take on the role of the persona. All of the other participants should take notes in a text application ([Google Docs](https://docs.google.com), [Etherpad](http://etherpad.org),document (either in a text document or using a more visual application such as BoardThing) and ask the persona clarifying questions. 

3.  The person playing the role of persona should start out by identifying what their goal is. (Example: my goal is to book a hotel for my vacation with my partner). Next, have them identify the very first step that they might take in order to achieve that goal. Note that this most likely will start before the persona even gets on to the website or application. (Example: I ask a participant “where do you want to go on vacation?”) 

4. Describe each step in detail. From here on out have the persona role player walk through every possible step that they would take until just after they reach their goal. The steps taken after the goal has been achieved are crucial to note as it informs you where they are heading next. If you have an application, don't start at logging in, instead start at the motive that would make someone need to log in.

5. Once you have completed documenting the entire scenario, have the non-persona role playing participants provide feedback on the journey. Now is a good time to ask clarifying questions ranging from the order of steps that a persona might take to more nuanced inquiries. 

---

## Examples:
* [The Lyra Project - by Bocoup](https://github.com/vega/lyra/search?q=persona&type=Issues&utf8=%E2%9C%93)

## Learn More:
* [All You Need To Know about Customer Journey Mapping - by Paul Boag](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/01/all-about-customer-journey-mapping/)
* [Using Customer Journey  to Improve Customer Experience - by Adam Richardson](https://hbr.org/2010/11/using-customer-journey-maps-to)
