_methods/sticky-clustering.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Sticky Clustering
---

**Method:**  Sticky Clustering

---

**Description:** Sticky Clustering is a method that provides an light touch and collaborative way to synthesize information.

---

**Why use or do it:** At a certain point in any project you need to move from idea generation to synthesizing so that you can take action on your design. Sticky Clustering helps you to synthesize information while simultaneously engaging the entire product team so that you have complete buy in.

---

**Who’s involved:** This varies depending upon what information you are trying to synthesize, however someone with real decision making abilities should be involved.

---

**When to use it:** This should be done after an idea generation method such as creating [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)

---

**How To do Sticky Clustering**

* **Step 1:** Generate a plethora of stickies around your idea using an online brainstorming tool such as [BoardThing](http://boardthing.com). For a more thorough explanation of this, check out [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)
![idea generation](/img/methods/clustering-1.png)

* **Step 2:** Working in teams, drag and group like-minded ideas or words together.
![group like-minded ideas](/img/methods/clustering-2.png)

* **Step 3:** Provide a new sticky for each group or cluster that you create. Name the sticky for the cluster.

![group and name clusters](/img/methods/clustering-3.png)

* **Step 4:** (optional) Vote on the names to synthesize even further.

![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-4.png)
---

**Examples:**
![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-5.jpg)

---
**Learn More:**

* [6 techniques to Brainstorm Ideas for Card Clusters](http://www.avasbutler.com/six-techniques-to-brainstorm-ideas-4-card-clusters/#.V4zrzJMrKRs)
* [Tools for Online Brainstorms](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)
*

Commit message:

adding in teasers and tags for each method, for #95 and #96

_methods/sticky-clustering.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Sticky Clustering
tags:
    - discovery
teaser: A method that provides an light touch and collaborative way to synthesize information.
---

**Method:**  Sticky Clustering

---

**Description:** Sticky Clustering is a method that provides an light touch and collaborative way to synthesize information.

---

**Why use or do it:** At a certain point in any project you need to move from idea generation to synthesizing so that you can take action on your design. Sticky Clustering helps you to synthesize information while simultaneously engaging the entire product team so that you have complete buy in.

---

**Who’s involved:** This varies depending upon what information you are trying to synthesize, however someone with real decision making abilities should be involved.

---

**When to use it:** This should be done after an idea generation method such as creating [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)

---

**How To do Sticky Clustering**

* **Step 1:** Generate a plethora of stickies around your idea using an online brainstorming tool such as [BoardThing](http://boardthing.com). For a more thorough explanation of this, check out [experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)
![idea generation](/img/methods/clustering-1.png)

* **Step 2:** Working in teams, drag and group like-minded ideas or words together.
![group like-minded ideas](/img/methods/clustering-2.png)

* **Step 3:** Provide a new sticky for each group or cluster that you create. Name the sticky for the cluster.

![group and name clusters](/img/methods/clustering-3.png)

* **Step 4:** (optional) Vote on the names to synthesize even further.

![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-4.png)
---

**Examples:**
![vote on ideas](/img/methods/clustering-5.jpg)

---
**Learn More:**

* [6 techniques to Brainstorm Ideas for Card Clusters](http://www.avasbutler.com/six-techniques-to-brainstorm-ideas-4-card-clusters/#.V4zrzJMrKRs)
* [Tools for Online Brainstorms](http://blog.lucidmeetings.com/blog/25-tools-for-online-brainstorming-and-decision-making-in-meetings)
*
