_methods/Visual-Design-Workshop.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Visual Design Workshop
---

**Method:** Visual Design Workshop

---

**Description:** Collaborative on defining the visual design approach of a project to get all key stakeholders involved in the process.

---

**Why use or do it:** Prior to working on the visual design for a product, project or website, you often need the entire product team and stakeholders to agree upon a common terminology for the look and feel of things. The workshop provides a space for everyone to explore what a successful and effective design might be. This is also a great opportunity to decide what just feels right for this specific design opportunity.

---

**Who’s involved:** Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process.

---

**When to use it:** The workshop is most effective when done as a kickoff to the visual design phase(s) of a project. This can happen well before the ux direction of the project is defined and/or the design of wireframes is finalized. Because remote or not co-located meetings can be extremely draining, consider breaking this workshop into a few sessions - with each session no longer than 90 minutes. The actual scheduling will depend on the client, the availability, the timeline, etc.

---

**How To run a visual design workshop:**

* **Step 1:** [Human Spectrogram](/methods/human-spectrogram/)
![spectrogram](/img/design-o-meter-trello.png)
* **Step 2:** [Experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)
![describe experience attributes](/img/ea-4.png)
* **Step 3:** [Clustering](/methods/sticky-clustering/)
![cluster attributes](/img/clustering-3.png)
* **Step 4:** [Moodboards](/methods/moodboards/)
* **Step 5:** [Actionable Feedback](/methods/feedback-session/)
* **Step 6:** [Style Tiles](/methods/style-tiles/)

Commit message:

adding in teasers and tags for each method, for #95 and #96

_methods/Visual-Design-Workshop.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Visual Design Workshop
tags:
    - develop
teaser: A collaborative workshop on defining the visual design approach of a project to get all key stakeholders involved in the process.
---

**Method:** Visual Design Workshop

---

**Description:** Collaborative on defining the visual design approach of a project to get all key stakeholders involved in the process.

---

**Why use or do it:** Prior to working on the visual design for a product, project or website, you often need the entire product team and stakeholders to agree upon a common terminology for the look and feel of things. The workshop provides a space for everyone to explore what a successful and effective design might be. This is also a great opportunity to decide what just feels right for this specific design opportunity.

---

**Who’s involved:** Designers and stakeholders. These should be done collaboratively. The bonus of collaborating and working openly is that there is a shared understanding and valuable conversations that arrive through the process.

---

**When to use it:** The workshop is most effective when done as a kickoff to the visual design phase(s) of a project. This can happen well before the ux direction of the project is defined and/or the design of wireframes is finalized. Because remote or not co-located meetings can be extremely draining, consider breaking this workshop into a few sessions - with each session no longer than 90 minutes. The actual scheduling will depend on the client, the availability, the timeline, etc.

---

**How To run a visual design workshop:**

* **Step 1:** [Human Spectrogram](/methods/human-spectrogram/)
![spectrogram](/img/design-o-meter-trello.png)
* **Step 2:** [Experience attributes](/methods/experience-attributes/)
![describe experience attributes](/img/ea-4.png)
* **Step 3:** [Clustering](/methods/sticky-clustering/)
![cluster attributes](/img/clustering-3.png)
* **Step 4:** [Moodboards](/methods/moodboards/)
* **Step 5:** [Actionable Feedback](/methods/feedback-session/)
* **Step 6:** [Style Tiles](/methods/style-tiles/)
