_methods/wireframing.md, before:

---
layout: methods
title: Wireframing
---

**Method:** Wireframing

---

**Description:** Wireframes allow you to refine and turn your sketches and user flows into a tangible representation of your project or product.


---

**Why use or do it:**
Wireframes are a low fidelity way to think through the patterns and flows required for users to accomplish tasks that have been defined using methods such as writing the design brief, creating a journey map or defining personas. If you were building a house, wireframes would be the blueprints to help you to develop out your plan for implementation.

---

**Who’s involved:**
While designers should create the wireframes, stakeholders and engineers should be actively involved in providing [feedback](/methods/feedback-session/).

---

**When to use it:**
Once you have a general answer to the following two questions, you should be prepared to wireframe:
1. What's the problem that you are trying to solve?
2. Who is it a problem for?

That said, many designers begin work on wireframes after the development of [personas](/methods/personas/) and [journey maps](/methods/journey-maps/).

---

**How To Wireframe:**

* **Step 1:** Using any prior sketches as a reference, begin to plot out the core screens for your flow with an image editing program or by sketching on paper.  What information needs to go on each screen? What's the hierarchy of information? What are some different layout options?  Whatever tool you use, make sure that you can somehow share your work with any potential collaborators digitally. If you have paper sketches, scan or take a photo of them and include them in any of your documentation (in github, invision, jira etc.)

* **Step 2:**

* **Step 3:**

---

**Examples:**
* [Hand-drawn Wireframe](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/159314905545784216/) by Jess Klein
* [Lines and Labels](https://www.graffletopia.com/stencils/1100?utm_source=Graffletopia+Newsletter&utm_campaign=33c6409c9c-Stencils_for_UX_Pros&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_5b9d2cc5d1-33c6409c9c-77674681#fullscreen) by Eric Miller Design
* [I <3 Wireframes](http://wireframes.tumblr.com/)


---
**Learn More:**

Read the book [Don't Make Me Think](https://www.sensible.com/dmmt.html) by Steve Krug

Commit message:

adding in teasers and tags for each method, for #95 and #96

_methods/wireframing.md, after:

---
layout: methods
title: Wireframing
tags:
    - develop
teaser: Wireframes allow you to refine and turn your sketches and user flows into a tangible representation of your project or product.
---

**Method:** Wireframing

---

**Description:** Wireframes allow you to refine and turn your sketches and user flows into a tangible representation of your project or product.


---

**Why use or do it:**
Wireframes are a low fidelity way to think through the patterns and flows required for users to accomplish tasks that have been defined using methods such as writing the design brief, creating a journey map or defining personas. If you were building a house, wireframes would be the blueprints to help you to develop out your plan for implementation.

---

**Who’s involved:**
While designers should create the wireframes, stakeholders and engineers should be actively involved in providing [feedback](/methods/feedback-session/).

---

**When to use it:**
Once you have a general answer to the following two questions, you should be prepared to wireframe:
1. What's the problem that you are trying to solve?
2. Who is it a problem for?

That said, many designers begin work on wireframes after the development of [personas](/methods/personas/) and [journey maps](/methods/journey-maps/).

---

**How To Wireframe:**

* **Step 1:** Using any prior sketches as a reference, begin to plot out the core screens for your flow with an image editing program or by sketching on paper.  What information needs to go on each screen? What's the hierarchy of information? What are some different layout options?  Whatever tool you use, make sure that you can somehow share your work with any potential collaborators digitally. If you have paper sketches, scan or take a photo of them and include them in any of your documentation (in github, invision, jira etc.)

* **Step 2:**

* **Step 3:**

---

**Examples:**
* [Hand-drawn Wireframe](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/159314905545784216/) by Jess Klein
* [Lines and Labels](https://www.graffletopia.com/stencils/1100?utm_source=Graffletopia+Newsletter&utm_campaign=33c6409c9c-Stencils_for_UX_Pros&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_5b9d2cc5d1-33c6409c9c-77674681#fullscreen) by Eric Miller Design
* [I <3 Wireframes](http://wireframes.tumblr.com/)


---
**Learn More:**

Read the book [Don't Make Me Think](https://www.sensible.com/dmmt.html) by Steve Krug
